USER-SICRACK packageContents:SICRACK stands for semi-infinite crack. This package implements in LAMMPS a fix sicrack command to introduce a semi-infinite crack in a simulation block. The fix enables the user to introduce a semi-infinite crack with desired tip intensity, position, and mode. This is done by applying the equations of linear elastic fracture mechanics for displacement to all atoms in the block. A ÒskinÓ of atoms around the border parallel to the crack front should be kept fixed whereas the atoms around the crack tip are free to deform according to the formalism of molecular dynamics and the specified potential.  The package requires no external libraries, and multiple fracture modes and intensities can be combined based on the needs of the user. Authors: Nathan Beets and Diana Farkas (Virginia Tech)Install:This package is installed using the standard instructions for packages in LAMMPS.  One myst be sure to install the ÒManybodyÓ potential for this to work properly.  It does not require any specific installation instructions.  Supporting information: Syntax of fix sicrack:Below is the structure of the fix as coded with this package:Fix ID Group-ID sicrack Tip_X Tip_Y G ? Mode_val K_initial K_increaseID, Group-ID are documented in the LAMMPS manual Sicrack = style name of this fix command. Tip_X = The X position of the crack tip, and the direction in which the crack will advance.Tip_Y = the Y position of the crack tip. G = Shear modulus of the material in question (GPa)? = the Poisson Ratio of the material in question. Mode_Val = Crack mode (M1, M2,M3)   K_initial = Applied stress intensity factor to open the first K value to K_increase = rate (per step) to increase the applied stress intensity by MD step.Note: Multiple fixes for multiple modes can be included in the same script and can be run simultaneously. The crack front will always be along the Z axis. The package is designed to run using units ÒmetalÓ. The shear modulus should be entered in GPa, and the stress intensity in MPaÃm.  Examples:fix     1 all sicrack 200.  200.  27.0 0.44 M1 1.21 0.0fix     1 all sicrack 200.  200.  27.0 0.44 M2 0.0 0.00001 Description:This command allows one to nucleate a crack in an atom block with a specific applied stress intensity magnitude K,  in MPaÃm and then open the crack by  increasing the K value, according to the displacement equations of linear elastic fracture mechanics, given below [1]:(See User_Sicrack_equations)Wherein   KI, II, III  are all tip stress intensity values, with units MPaÃm, ? is the shear modulus, and ? is the Poisson ratio of your material. ? and r are the angle and distance to the crack tip in the x-y plane, respectively.  The program introduces a crack in the sample with a user-specified crack tip intensity value (K), with the mode specified.  Multiple different fixes can be defined in the same script if a user wants to propagate a crack with more than just one mode.  Once introduced, the crack can be expanded at a user-defined rate, with the K_increase parameter, per MD step. It is important to note that if modes II or III are used without an additional fix to include a mode I contribution, any displaced atoms on the crack front that are close enough to the other side will re-bond, eliminating the defined front.  This is specifically different from the method of introducing a crack defined on the LAMMPS website because for this method, no atoms are deleted Ð only moved according to the equations given above.  So, in order to properly study mode II or III fracture behavior, a small mode I contribution must be added, to allow some separation between atoms on the crack front to deter bond formation.  Otherwise, the user must eliminate atoms along the crack front using the centrosymmetry or common neighbor analysis algorithms. This fix can be used for different crack modes (I, II, and III) such that behavior at and around the crack tip is governed by the molecular dynamics formalism, while the sample border is governed by the continuum fracture mechanics equations given above. In order to do this, the best practice is to first define a ÒborderÓ or skin of atoms around the sample. To do this, utilize the ÒregionÓ and ÒgroupÓ commands in tandem with the samplesÕ dimensions (see example scripts). This border needs to be somewhat larger than the range of the interatomic potential used and the atomic positions are kept fixed.  As an example, if you have a 40 nm by 40 nm by 40 nm cuboid structure filled with a single crystal of gold (lattice parameter 0.408 nm) with origin in a corner and all initial atom coordinates positive, the crack front (as specified by the fix) will be parallel to the z axis, and the crack itself will oriented in the x direction.  The skin should be around 2.0 nm thick, parallel to the crack front.  So, this is all atoms where x > 38, x < 2, and y > 38, y < 2.  All atoms in this region will be defined as group Òborder.Ó  Everything outside of it will be defined as group Òmobile.Ó An example of this is documented in either of the attached input scripts.Figure 1 illustrates this for a mode 1 crack. (See User_Sicrack_Figure1)Figure 1: Border or ÒfixedÓ atoms and nucleation of a mode I crack.  Similar setups can be used for modesII and III. After a border has been defined, the user needs to open the crack to a specified intensity, through the fix, which is applied to all atoms (fixed and free, from the figure above).  Ideally, this initial opening should be at a value for critical stress intensity so that the crack will not close immediately after taking the formalism away.  Determining this optimum value for K usually takes a little trial and error.  For typical metals, a stress intensity of around K = 1.2 MPa?m is a good place to start.  In order to study crack propagation, this first fix command can be unfixed and a second fix can be applied with K_initial as zero, but K_increase is used to introduce additional crack opening.  This value is the rate of increase of K per step.  The motion of the interior free atoms is governed by the molecular dynamics, while atom motion in the border, far from the crack tip is given by linear elastic fracture mechanics. This formalism has been used for to simulate fracture behavior in zirconium, [2] tantalum [3] and nickel [4] . It has also been used to model microstructural evolution in the crack tip region in single and polycrystalline systems. [5, 6] Restrictions: The use of this fix is limited to the nvt and nve ensembles.  Furthermore, due to the fact that the samples sides perpendicular to the Z direction are being continuously deformed, we cannot have periodic boundary conditions in either the x or y directions.  Both periodic or free surface boundary conditions along the Z axis are possible.   Finally, if simulating a brittle material, where the crack tip is expected to propagate into the sample with increasing applied stress tip intensity, the user will need to manually move the crack tip forward by altering the input script and keeping up with the tip by checking the dump files, or sample snapshots as the deformation proceeds. Related Commands: NoneDefault: NoneBibliography:	1.	Liebowitz, H. and G. C. Sih, Mathematical Theories of Brittle Fracture. Vol. Vol. II. 1968.2.	Bertolino, G., M. Ruda, and D. Farkas, Fracture resistance of textured polycrystalline Zr: A simulation study. Computational Materials Science, 2019. 162: p. 304-313.3.	Smith, L., et al., Molecular dynamics study of deformation and fracture in a tantalum nano-crystalline thin film. Modelling and Simulation in Materials Science and Engineering, 2014. 22(4): p. 045010.4.	Farkas, D., Fracture Resistance of Nanocrystalline Ni. Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A, 2007. 38(13): p. 2168-2173.5.	Ruda, M., D. Farkas, and G. Bertolino, Twinning and phase transformations in Zr crack tips. Computational Materials Science, 2010. 49(4): p. 743-750.6.	Farkas, D., Atomistic simulations of metallic microstructures. Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science, 2013. 17(6): p. 284-297.